.TH xtar 1
.SH NAME
xtar 1.5b \- view contents of a tar file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xtar
.RI [ Xoptions ]
.RI [ tarfile\c
.RI [ .gz\c
.RI | .Z ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
XTar is a Motif program for viewing and manipulating tar archives
(which may be compressed).
The contents of the archive are displayed in the main window
and various options are available from pulldown and popup menus.
.PP
The main window shows the name of the file currently displayed.
.PP
The main XTar pulldown menu has the following options:
.nr n \w'EXTRACT AS...\0\0\0\0'+1n-1/1n
.IP "OPEN" \nn
Open a new tar file.
.IP "CLOSE" \nn
Close currently opened tar file.
.IP "VIEW..." \nn
View the contents of any selected files, using the internal
file viewer or launch an external viewer.
.IP "EXTRACT..." \nn
Extract the contents of any selected files to a specified
directory.
.IP "EXTRACT ALL..." \nn
Extract the contents of the entire tar archive to a specified directory.
.IP "STATISTICS..." \nn
View statistics about the currently opened tar archive.
.IP "FILENAME SEARCH..." \nn
Perform a regular expression search on the FILENAMES
in the tar file.
This can also be activated by
pressing '/' in the main window.
.IP NEXT \nn
Search for the next occurence of the regular
expression.
This can also be activated by pressing
'n' in the main window.
.IP "CONVERT UID/GID" \nn
Convert user IDs and group IDs to usernames and group names on
the current system.
.IP QUIT \nn
Exit XTar.
.PP
The Set Attributes pulldown menu allows you to set permissions, ownership,
and, if you are root, the group id and time stamp, on extracted files.
To enable these options simply toggle the corresponding button.
.PP
The Help pulldown menu allows you to access copyright information and the
xtar HTML documents.
.SH AUTHOR
Rik Turnbull,
Stella Consulting Ltd.
<rik@stella-consulting.ltd.uk>
http://www.stella-consulting.ltd.uk/xtar/
